Walden: Life in the Woods
It concerned Thoreau that modern life was offering a limited opportunity for gaining real wisdom and knowledge. People were crushed under the servitude of work and had little chance of enjoying what life had to offer. To Thoreau, the move to Walden represented a return to the simple life.
Thoreau’s Walden routine meant boiling things down to the bare essentials so he could stay focused on more enlightened pursuits, devoting himself to philosophical, spiritual, creative and artistic endeavours. To him, the simple life came down to four essentials: food, shelter, clothing, and fuel for the fireplace or wood-stove.
It was amongst this sonorous wash of animal life that Thoreau saw his solitude in the woods as an immersive experience in nature.
## About the book:
Walden (1854) results from the two years Henry David Thoreau spent in the woods on the north shore of Walden Pond, a lake in Massachusetts. It is both a practical and philosophical account of how he sustained himself through farming and by building his own house, and what he learned about human nature by living a simpler life. Although it was a deeply personal experience, Thoreau’s approach to society teaches us how we, too, can approach the modern world.
## About the author:
Henry David Thoreau (1817-1862) was an avid essayist, poet and philosopher. Thoreau spent much of his life exploring the relationship people have with nature, work, and government. He is considered one of the leaders of the transcendentalist movement in nineteenth-century America.